<< [ToolsComparison Tools comparison]

#[http://www.clockspot.net/   ClockSpot] Review. (not completed yet)


= DBE review =

== Introduction ==

Review of [http://www.clockspot.net/   ClockSpot] application (demo). Well featured utility for the management of an enterprise employees working times, payrolls, project times and absences count.



== Review Info ==

Reviewer: DBE

OS: Windows Vista 64bit SP2

Browser: Firefox 3.5.3, IE 8



== Details ==

To write this review I used the [http://demo.clockspot.net/  demo] proposed by [http://www.clockspot.net/   ClockSpot].

The graphics are simple and clear, with a double top menu and a side legend (autofit browser size). I personally don't love the icons choosen for this site. The use of the horizontal space could be better.

The system use 2 types of users, the user and the administrator.

The pricing is 10$ + 5$ x admin + 3$ x user

=== User ===

The standard users basically have the possibility to start and stop a counter and for this counter choose a "job code" made from an administrator (that can have a $/h income attached to it). This counter ideally should follow a week schedule. Another time counter is used for "timers" that represent time spent on projects (timers can have also a $/h income). Finally another counter is at disposal for tasks, that can be proposed by the administrator and also by other users (no income attached).

The user may modify a mistakenly recorded times by sending a request to the administrator.

The user can ask permission for an absence from a list of possible absence types (sickness, holiday, payed absences,...).

The user has access to different information:
 * absences at disposal 
 * day schedules
 * Payrolls
 * Tasks
 * Timers
 

An internal message system can be used to contact all the users.

I found hard to know what was the difference between a task, a timer and a jobcode.

It is possible to start, stop a timer and leave a message by phone.



=== Administrator ===

The administrator has the role to create the Tasks, Timers (and timers categories), jobcodes, users and users schedules. He has also the duty to set the absences rights, to confirm the times entered from the users and to give the absences permissions.
Practically the administrator can edit everything a user has edited. He has access to a set of global options that give users more or less right (create a task, access to payrolls,...), but those option affect all users.



== What's good ==

Rich of features, Easy after understanding



== What's bad ==

Lack of immediate help, English only, Not clear, only 2 type of users



== Rating ==

ease of use 5/10

features 8/10

graphics 6/10

general impression 6/10