<< [ToolsComparison Tools comparison]

#[http://letsfreckle.com/   Freckle] Review.


= DBE review =

== Introduction ==

Review of [http://letsfreckle.com/   Freckle] application (1 account 1 project free plan). (...)



== Review Info ==

Reviewer: DBE

OS: Windows Vista 64bit SP2

Browser: Firefox 3.5.3, IE 8



== Details ==

I start with the idea of registering for a 30 day trial, so I proceed to step 1 that ask me what plan I want to sign for. The difference between plans is in the maximum number of accounts allowed and SSL activation. I personally don't like to have to do this choice at this stage (it is possible to upgrade the plan later). In the end I'm forced to choose the free account with 1 user 1 project limitations, because I don't feel like giving my Credit Card information for a 30 day free trial. The registration took me 10 minutes even if the site claim only 60 seconds are needed.

After the first login you are advised to read a quick help and you can immediately begin using the application.

The application offer the possibility to create projects (only one for this review) with an hourly budget and a setting for the minimum time increment. Then for a given day it is possible to enter the time spent on a project, with the possibility to tag this entry for better search. Account can be created if you are using a plan that allow it.

Statistics on users daily efforts in the projects (feed available), and on the projects them-self (savable and exportable in csv) can be accessed.

There is the possibility to use an API and to integrate a timer in your firefox/safari/iexplorer browser (still in beta).

The graphic makes use of all possible colors, uses 2 top menus and one side menu. The page don't follow the browser size and waste a lot of space in wide screens. The possibility to hide unused parts of the interface can be useful and a good use of js. The page load time seems a bit long but still not disturbing.

The price goes from 12$ for the one person plan to 98$ for the 50 persons plan.


== What's good ==

API, timer, js



== What's bad ==

registration, price for few accounts, limit to 50 accounts, plans, components still in beta



== Rating ==

ease of use 6

features 3

graphics 5

general impression 5