<< [ToolsComparison Tools comparison]

#[http://www.slimtimer.com   SlimTimer] Review.


= DBE review =

== Introduction ==

Review of [http://www.slimtimer.com   SlimTimer] application (free content). Basic application that allow task creation, sharing and their time recording.



== Review Info ==

Reviewer: DBE

OS: Windows Vista 64bit SP2

Browser: Firefox 3.5.3, IE 8



== Details ==

The registration is fast and easy (no mail confirmation, no image to text, few fields to fill). Timezone and date format are asked at registration.

The application claims to be compatible with FireFox 1.5+, IE 6+ and Safari (not tested).

The graphics are simple and clear. the layout is 2 columns fit to browser size (my favorite :D). Maybe the green color in the settings page is not the perfect choice.

Just after registration you can start to use [http://www.slimtimer.com   SlimTimer] by opening the "timer" in a new window and easily create tasks (they can be tagged or shared with other users) and start/stop the recording of their duration. There is the possibility to put the Timer in the system tray (Windows only) (not tested). With the timer is not possible to record 2 tasks at the same time (but is possible by opening 2 timers!)

When a task duration has been measured an entry in created. An entry can be tagged and commented. The entry can be edited for corrections afterward.

All sorts of Reports can be generated for different periods of time, that contain the time spent on each tasks (or even tags) for every user.

An API (not tested) is at disposal for entries and tasks manipulations. formats available are XML, YAML and JSON. The API use POST http method.



== What's good ==

Easy to use, good documentation, API, tray app



== What's bad ==

Basic features, English only



== Rating ==

ease of use  8/10

features  3/10

graphics 8/10

general impression 6/10